# My first side project

One year after I finished my Computer Science Degree I thought it would be a good time to start a side project, every experienced developer I knew was doing one. The idea started when my good friend Jason came to me asking for help with his PHD in sports statistics. Jason's PHD  was to do with tracking the position of athletes on the field while competing and performing post match analysis.

The program would be simple, read in a huge file with all the player's positions on the field and draw them on a virtual field! First thing we did was come up with the name Radiant Tulip, the name was randomly generated by a product name generator online.

First mock up of an AFL field in Radiant TulipThe mock above was an idea of what our first version would be. After 6 months of nights and weekends I was able to implement the prototype, Jason was busy gathering data for his PHD. Radiant Tulip first supported the sports AFL and wheel chair rugby. These were the sports Jason was able to gather data for. The AFL positional data we had was in the longitude latitude format, that made it very challenging to draw onto a 2D plane.
All the work I did on Radiant Tulip I put my heart and soul into I was making it perfect, adding unit tests, using the latest frame works for the time and I was learning a lot.
Radiant Tulip ImplementationEverything was cooking along just great for Radiant Tulip, until Jason stopped his PHD and we threw it all away…
I was proud of the project, I put a lot of effort into it and it's a good portfolio piece but it's a shame it never went anywhere. A few years later I learnt about catapult sports (https://www.catapultsports.com/ ) who do something very similar, I am glad to hear someone managed to make something like this commercial.
The original code for Radiant Tulip is still on my GitHub gathering dust. I also cant publish any of the data files it consumed.

JCWardle/RadiantTulip
Radiant Tulip is a tool that is used to provide a bird's eye view of a sports game. - JCWardle/RadiantTulipgithub.com
Thanks for reading I've got a laundry list of failed side projects I plan to cover in the coming weeks.